---
layout: post
title: "Vimwiki Tips"
subtitle: "install and set up vimwiki plugin"
background: '/img/posts/04.jpg'
---

# About wiki

Wiki is a style. An excellent style of serving learning. [Here's the Wikipedia](https://www.wikipedia.org/)

And here's a hint: Relax when you Wiki-ing the contents about history or
politics on Wikipedia. If you can't even visit Wikipedia, go get a VPN or the like first.

提示：当你浏览关于 "历史" 或者 "政治" 的维基百科时，放松点（不要太认真 :)）；
如果你甚至无法浏览维基百科，先去弄一个 VPN 这类的玩意儿再说吧。

# About vimwiki

vimwiki is a vim plugin: [A personal wiki for vim](https://github.com/vimwiki/vimwiki)

## Configurations

howto set up the vimwiki and enjoy your personal wiki.

### Install vimwiki plugin (using [Vim-Plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug))

Add the following to the plugin-configuration in your [vimrc](https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Open_vimrc_file):

`Plug 'vimwiki/vimwiki'`

Then run `:PlugInstall`.

### Customize the wiki-page

* markdwon

I'm not familiar with the original wiki syntax, and I used to write notes/docs
in markdown format, so here I customize vimwiki to support markdown (as default
format). Add this line to the `.vimrc`:

`let g:vimwiki_ext2syntax={'.md': 'markdown', '.markdown': 'markdown', '.mdown': 'markdown', '.rmd': 'markdown'}`

* multiple index.md

It's common to get multiple paralleled wiki-pages when editing on the same
topic. And it would be nice to have an index.md for every topic. This can be
done by setting `vimwiki_list` in `.vimrc` (here is my example):

    let g:vimwiki_list = [
        \ {'path': '~/VimWiki', 'syntax': 'markdown', 'ext': '.md', 'index': 'index',
        \  'path_html': '~/VimwikiHtml',
        \  'template_ext': '.html',
        \  'template_default':'markdown',
        \  'template_path': '~/VimWiki/template/',
        \  'custom_wiki2html': '~/VimWiki/wiki2html.sh',
        \ },
        \ {'path': '~/VimWiki/LinuxTools', 'syntax': 'markdown', 'ext': '.md'},
        \ {'path': '~/VimWiki/LinuxTools/vim8', 'syntax': 'markdown', 'ext': '.md'},
        \ {'path': '~/VimWiki/LinuxTools/CLIs', 'syntax': 'markdown', 'ext': '.md'},
        \ {'path': '~/VimWiki/MachineLearning', 'syntax': 'markdown', 'ext': '.md'},
        \ {'path': '~/VimWiki/MachineLearning/LinearAlgebra', 'syntax': 'markdown', 'ext': '.md'},
        \ {'path': '~/VimWiki/MachineLearning/Statistics', 'syntax': 'markdown', 'ext': '.md'},
        \ {'path': '~/VimWiki/MachineLearning/NeuralNetwork', 'syntax': 'markdown', 'ext': '.md'},
        \ {'path': '~/VimWiki/Programing', 'syntax': 'markdown', 'ext': '.md'},
        \ {'path': '~/VimWiki/Programing/Julia', 'syntax': 'markdown', 'ext': '.md'},
        \ {'path': '~/VimWiki/Programing/Latex', 'syntax': 'markdown', 'ext': '.md'},
        \ {'path': '~/VimWiki/Programing/Python', 'syntax': 'markdown', 'ext': '.md'},
        \ {'path': '~/VimWiki/Programing/ShellScripts', 'syntax': 'markdown', 'ext': '.md'},
        \ ]

And here is the counterpart of my directories (output of `tree -L 2`):

      ├── diary
      ├── index.md
      ├── LinuxTools
      │   ├── index.md
      │   ├── vim8.md
      │   └── vimwiki.md
      ├── MachineLearning
      │   ├── LinearAlgebra
      │   ├── NeuralNetworks
      │   └── Statistics
      ├── mathjax
      │   ├── bower.json
      │   ├── composer.json
      │   ├── CONTRIBUTING.md
      │   ├── es5
      │   ├── LICENSE
      │   ├── package.json
      │   └── README.md
      ├── Programming
      │   ├── Julia
      │   ├── Latex
      │   ├── Python
      │   └── ShellScripts
      ├── Session.vim
      ├── template
      │   └── markdown.html
      ├── wiki2html.sh
  
`Home.md` is the main index of all my wikis. And I have three major topics:
LinuxTools (i.e., terminal and all good CLIs), MachineLearning and
ProgrammingLanguages. The sub-topics clearly are the interests of my own
knowledge base. 

### `vimwiki2html` and "mathjax/"

It would be great if we can view our markdown wiki files locally on our browser.
vimwiki got a command `vimwiki2html` to turn the wiki page into html file, but
it's not support math equation syntax by default. And its where the [mathjax](https://www.mathjax.org/)
comes in. Some good people provided a convenient way to convert markdown files
to html with a script [wiki2html.sh](https://gist.github.com/enpassant/0496e3db19e32e110edca03647c36541),
and [some went even futher](https://gist.github.com/maikeldotuk/54a91c21ed9623705fdce7bab2989742).

All I need to do is to, 1) install a local copy of "mathjax", 2) redirect it
properly. And here is the detail:
In my vimwiki directory, do:
1. `git clone https://github.com/mathjax/MathJax.git mathjax`
2. change these lines in `wiki2html.sh`:

```sh
    # HAS_MATH=$(grep -o "\$\$.\+\$\$" "$INPUT")
    # if [ ! -z "$HAS_MATH" ]; then
    #     MATH="--mathjax=https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML"
    # else
    #     MATH=""
    # fi

    HAS_MATH=$(grep -o "\$\$*\+\$\$" "$INPUT")
    # # load mathjax from local copy (in case the CDN not work)
    if [ -n "$HAS_MATH" ]; then
        MATH="--mathjax=path2your-mathjax/es5/tex-chtml.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML"
    else
        MATH=""
    fi
```
    
NOTE that the "path2your-mathjax" should change to your own path. In case you
lost in it, mine is '/home/myacct/VimWiki/mathjax/es5/'. You can put it anywhere
you like of course.

And if you want more control to how the html pages should display, use some
templates or the like.


# `vim-instant-markdown`

Imagine this: every time I want to 'check' how the edited content will be
display in browser, I have to generate the wiki page (html file) again and
agian. For me the vimwiki2html is not enough. And this is where the
[vim instant markdown](https://github.com/instant-markdown/vim-instant-markdown)
comes in. Just follow the instruction of vim-instant-markdown README.md, it's
really good.

---

寻寻觅觅尝这试那反反复复，终究还是回到了 pandoc 的怀抱。但其实这是个意外。

等到我发现再也无法离开 vimwiki 后，以前没有解决的问题（数学公式的显示问题）
开始变得令人不能忍受（是的，距离太远可能直接放弃，而一步之遥最是销魂 🙄 ）。
我说过我是贪婪的人，无法放弃一步之遥的诱惑，幸运的是我得到了我想要的“更多”。

其实，该庆幸的是我碰上的问题早就有人先碰上也先解决了，我只是找到了这个方法，
应该说是‘搜索’到了这个方法，并作了一定的调整。虽说‘闻道有先后’，但对于这些
解决了实际问题的人，西方绅士会说 'hat off' （如果现在西方还有像样的绅士的话）,
我会由衷地说‘牛啊，伙计’，而像 [Git](https://git-scm.com/) 这种，除了‘真tm牛’，
我不知道该怎么感叹了 😜 😜 😜 ）。
